## Specificity

On large code bases, it's preferable and a ton more maintainable if the specificity of selectors are all as equal and
as low as humanly possible.

In all three languages, the use of classes for styling is encouraged, while the use of IDs is completely prohibited. There is literally no point in using IDs in stylesheets.

<!-- --lang-ex -->

##### CSS

```css
/* DO */
.component {
    ...
}

/* DON'T */
#component {
    ...
}
```

##### LESS

```less
// DO
.component {
    ...
}

// DON'T
#component {
    ...
}
```

##### SCSS

```css
/* DO */
.component {
    ...
}

/* DON'T */
#component {
    ...
}
```
<!-- --lang-ex-end -->

Style the base elements (such as typography elements). **Do not** reference or style descendent elements in your class
selectors.

<!-- --lang-ex -->

##### CSS

```css
/* DO */
h1 {
    ...
}

/* DON'T */
.component h1 {
    ...
}
```

##### LESS

```less
// DO
h1 {
    ...
}

// DON'T
.component {
    h1 {
        ...
    }
}
```

##### SCSS

```css
/* DO */
h1 {
    ...
}

/* DON'T */
.component {
    h1 {
        ...
    }
}
```

<!-- --lang-ex-end -->


Use of overqualified selectors in your CSS is not recommended. Do not prepend a class or ID with an element.

```css
/* DON'T */
div.container {
    ...
}
```

#### Performance

Overly specific selectors can also cause performance issues. Consider:

<!-- --lang-ex -->

##### CSS

```css
ul.user-list li span a:hover {
    color: red;
}
```

##### LESS

```css
ul.user-list {
    li {
        span {
            a:hover {
                color: red;
            }
        }
    }
}
```

##### SCSS

```css
ul.user-list {
    li {
        span {
            a:hover {
                color: red;
            }
        }
    }
}
```

<!-- --lang-ex-end -->

Selectors are resolved right to left, exiting when it has been detected the selector does not match. This requires a lot
of DOM walking and for large documents can cause a significant increase in the layout time. For further reading checkout:
https://developers.google.com/speed/docs/best-practices/rendering#UseEfficientCSSSelectors

If we know we want to give all `a` elements inside the `.user-list` red on hover we can simplify this style to:

<!-- --lang-ex -->

##### CSS

```css
.user-list__link:hover {
    color: red;
}
```

##### LESS

```less
.user-list__link:hover {
    color: red;
}
```

##### SCSS

```css
.user-list__link:hover {
    color: red;
}
```

<!-- --lang-ex-end -->

#### General Rules

Your selectors are fundamental to writing good CSS. To very briefly sum up the above sections:

* **Select what you want explicitly**, rather than relying on circumstance or coincidence. Good Selector Intent will rein in the reach and leak of your styles.
* **Write selectors for reusability**, so that you can work more efficiently and reduce waste and repetition.
* **Do not nest selectors unnecessarily**, because this will increase specificity and affect where else you can use your styles.
* **Do not qualify selectors unnecessarily**, as this will impact the number of different elements you can apply styles to.
* **Keep selectors as short as possible**, in order to keep specificity down and performance up.

Focusing on these points will keep your selectors a lot more sane and easy to work with on changing and long-running projects.
