## Folder Structure

#### General principle
The Sass folder structure we're proposing, will have two slight differences
between the core framework and micro apps, however the bulk of the structure is
identical between the two.

The idea is to have the least amount of folders as possible, but as many as we
need to define clear, structured patterns in your Sass.

#### Core Folder Structure

```
.
├── sass
|   ├── settings/
|   └── tools/
|   └── vendor/
|   └── components/
|   └── utilities/
```


**/settings:** Contains all of your SCSS variables for your framework. Within
this folder is 1 primary file `_settings.scss`, which imports all other variable
files that have been broken into logical files such as `_colors.scss`,
`_typography.scss`, `_z-index.scss` and your chosen frameworks variables, for
example `_foundation.scss`.

**/tools:** Contains all of your Sass mixins. Within this folder is 1 primary
file `_tools.scss`, which imports all other mixin files that have been broken into
logical files. No framework mixins should appear in this folder as they can be
consumed from their own respective `/vendor` or `/components` folder.

**/vendor:** Contains all of your vendor files, such as normalize, bootstrap,
foundation, animate.css, etc. All readily consumable third party files belong
here, and can be imported in the framework base file as required. No file in
the /vendor folder should ever be modified.

**/components:** Contains all of your components. This folder will make up the
vast majority of your compiled CSS. All custom components simply live inside
this folder, for example `/components/component/_component.scss`. It also contains
the consumed version of your chosen /vendor framework's components, which will be
reworked to adhere to the Naming Conventions and Style Guide. They will live
inside a subfolder of the framework's name, for example `/components/foundation/`.

**/utilities:** Contains all CSS snippets which can be applied to your HTML for
quick prototyping, or a case by case basis where a unique, yet repeatable style
is required. Every utility found within this folder will have both a class and a
mixin. An example being, truncatedText. You can utilise it by applying the class
`.u-truncatedText` or by applying a mixin, `@include truncatedText;`.


#### Micro App Folder Structure

```
.
├── sass
|   ├── settings/
|   └── tools/
|   └── vendor/
|   └── layouts/
|   └── components/
|   └── utilities/
|   └── shame/
```

There are only two minor differences in a micro app, when compared to the core
framework. Firstly you'll notice that the /framework folder has been replaced by
a /layouts folder, as well as the addition of the /shame folder.

**/layouts:** Contains your micro app "layouts" and page specific styling.
Essentially creating the wrapping sections and grids for your app, where the
core framework's components will live inside. For example, a layout file could
potentially be your micro app's navigation. It is important to note that the
styling for individual navigation items and all other inner components styling
do not live in the layout file. There purpose is purely for the containing
elements that set up your app.

**/shame:** This interestingly named folder has one goal: to remain empty. It's
purpose is the place for all of those hot fixes or quick hacks in throwing
something together. Any code which you don't feel is "complete" can also live
here. It creates clear visibility on less than perfect code, especially when it
comes to code reviews, and creates a trail for your dodgy code that if left
somewhere in your component/layout code could be forgotten about and left.

**A note on: /components & /utilities:** Within your micro app, these folders should
only house your app's unique code. Any repeatable component or utility that could
be re-used across other micro apps should be flagged and a PR opened for adding
it into the core framework.
